[WIP] Dapr docs for .NET SDK (#5)
dapr-sandbox/components-dotnet-sdk: daprdocs/content/en/dotnet-sdk-docs/dotnet-bindings/_index.md

---
type: docs
title: "Implementing a .NET input/output binding component"
linkTitle: "Bindings"
weight: 1000

> description: How to create an input/output binding with the Dapr Pluggable Components .NET SDK

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: How to create an input/output binding with the Dapr pluggable components .NET SDK
```

no_list: true
is_preview: true
---

Creating a binding component requires just a few basic steps.

> ## Add Bindings Namespaces

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Add bindings namespaces
```

Add `using` statements for the bindings related namespaces.

```csharp
using Dapr.PluggableComponents.Components;
using Dapr.PluggableComponents.Components.Bindings;
```

> ## Input Bindings: Implement `IInputBinding`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Input bindings: Implement `IInputBinding`
```

Create a class that implements the `IInputBinding` interface.

```csharp
internal sealed class MyBinding : IInputBinding
{
    public Task InitAsync(MetadataRequest request, CancellationToken cancellationToken = default)
    {
        // Called to initialize the component with its configured metadata...
    }

    public async Task ReadAsync(MessageDeliveryHandler<InputBindingReadRequest, InputBindingReadResponse> deliveryHandler, CancellationToken cancellationToken = default)
    {
        // Until canceled, check the underlying store for messages and deliver them to the Dapr runtime...
    }
}
```

> Calls to the `ReadAsync()` method are "long-lived" in that the method is not expected to return until canceled (i.e. via the `cancellationToken`). As messages are read from the underlying store of the component, they are delivered to the Dapr runtime via the `deliveryHandler` callback. Delivery allows the component to receive notification if/when the application (served by the Dapr runtime) acknowledges processing of the message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Calls to the `ReadAsync()` method are "long-lived", in that the method is not expected to return until canceled (for example, via the `cancellationToken`). As messages are read from the underlying store of the component, they are delivered to the Dapr runtime via the `deliveryHandler` callback. Delivery allows the component to receive notification if/when the application (served by the Dapr runtime) acknowledges processing of the message.
```

```csharp
    public async Task ReadAsync(MessageDeliveryHandler<InputBindingReadRequest, InputBindingReadResponse> deliveryHandler, CancellationToken cancellationToken = default)
    {
        TimeSpan pollInterval = // Polling interval (e.g. from initalization metadata)...

        // Poll the underlying store until canceled...
        while (!cancellationToken.IsCancellationRequested)
        {
            var messages = // Poll underlying store for messages...

            foreach (var message in messages)
            {
                // Deliver the message to the Dapr runtime...
                await deliveryHandler(
                    new InputBindingReadResponse
                    {
                        // Set the message content...
                    },
                    // Callback invoked when application acknowledges the message...
                    async request =>
                    {
                        // Process response data or error message...
                    })
            }

            // Wait for the next poll (or cancellation)...
            await Task.Delay(pollInterval, cancellationToken);
        }
    }
```

> ## Output Bindings: Implement `IOutputBinding`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Output bindings: Implement `IOutputBinding`
```

Create a class that implements the `IOutputBinding` interface.

```csharp
internal sealed class MyBinding : IOutputBinding
{
    public Task InitAsync(MetadataRequest request, CancellationToken cancellationToken = default)
    {
        // Called to initialize the component with its configured metadata...
    }

    public Task<OutputBindingInvokeResponse> InvokeAsync(OutputBindingInvokeRequest request, CancellationToken cancellationToken = default)
    {
        // Called to invoke a specific operation...
    }

    public Task<string[]> ListOperationsAsync(CancellationToken cancellationToken = default)
    {
        // Called to list the operations that can be invoked.
    }
}
```

> ## Input *and* Output Binding Components

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Input and output binding components
```

> A component can be *both* an input *and* output binding, simply by implementing both interfaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A component can be _both_ an input _and_ output binding, simply by implementing both interfaces.
```

```csharp
internal sealed class MyBinding : IInputBinding, IOutputBinding
{
    // IInputBinding Implementation...

    // IOutputBinding Implementation...
}
```

> ## Register Binding Component

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Register binding component
```

> In the main program file (e.g. `Program.cs`), register the binding component in an application service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the main program file (for example, `Program.cs`), register the binding component in an application service.
```

```csharp
using Dapr.PluggableComponents;

var app = DaprPluggableComponentsApplication.Create();

app.RegisterService(
    "<socket name>",
    serviceBuilder =>
    {
        serviceBuilder.RegisterBinding<MyBinding>();
    });

app.Run();
```

{{% alert title="Note" color="primary" %}}
A component that implements both `IInputBinding` and `IOutputBinding` will be registered as both an input and output binding.

> {{% /alert %}}

Reviewer: Add this at the bottom of the page:

```
## Next steps
Learn how to implement a different component with the pluggable component SDK:
   - [Pub/sub]({{< ref dotnet-pub-sub >}})
   - [State store]({{< ref dotnet-state-store >}})
```
